In the last video, we did a little bit of debugging to figure out why some messages went missing,
and we eventually realized that there was a period of time after we killed a listener during this restart
process inside of our terminal.
We're that streaming server thought that that client still might be active.
So we spoke about one way to help Nats figure out that the client wasn't active.
We could adjust those heartbeat values.
In this video, we're going to take a look at the other way of helping it, that streaming server understand
that a closed client really is closed and that it should not try to send it any more messages.
So to do so, we're going to add some code into our listener and our publisher inside this code that
we're going to write out.
We're going to add in some code to detect any time that our listener or publisher programs are about
to be closed down.
And as soon as we detect that they're about to be closed down, we're then going to intercept that and
we're going to try to tell our Stan client or our Nats client that it needs to send the server a shutdown
request and tell it, hey, just so you know, I'm going offline, consider me offline.
Don't try to send me any more events.
So here's what we're going to do inside of Stan on Kinect.
We're going to first set up a little event handler.
We're going to say inside of here, Stan, on close.
So any single time or any time that we try to close this client or disconnect from the running server,
we're going to do a console log of Nats.
Connection closed.
And then immediately after that, we'll do a processed exit, which is going to just kick us out and
say, end this process.
Don't do anything else.
Then down at the very bottom, the file.
I'm going to add in two handlers to watch for any single time that someone tries to close down this
process.
So an example of closing this down would be if we select this window right here and did a control C
or whenever we manually restart it using the node dev tool.
So we're going to write inside of here processed on.
This autocomplete is really annoying.
Ruston sig int.
Whenever that occurs, we're going to run.
Stand up close.
And we'll do something very similar for cig term.
So these are watching for interrupt signals or terminate signals.
These are signals that are sent to this process.
Any time that the node dev tries to restart our program or any time you hit control C at your terminal.
So we're going to intercept those interrupt or terminate requests to our program.
And whenever that happens, we're going to try to close down our client first.
So we're saying, hey, don't kill us just yet.
I need to close my connection.
By calling Stan close, our client is going to reach out to the node net server.
Say, don't send me any more messages.
That's going to cause our client to successfully or hopefully successfully close down.
And then after it closes down, it's then going to do the console log and then manually exit our program
entirely.
Okay.
Let's save this.
I'll then go back over to my terminal.
It looks like I don't have any heirs over here from the get go.
That's good.
I'm not going to go back over to my monitoring window.
I'm going to refresh and I'm just going to wait for a second for my list of subscriptions to go down
to two.
So right now, we don't we have not closed that last instance when we just saved our code.
When we saved our code, we were closing down a copy of our program that did not have this extra stan
close call inside of it.
So I'm just going to wait about 20 seconds or so.
There we go.
I'm now down to two subscriptions.
So now, in theory, if I go back over to my terminal and I restart one of those listeners, I should
then be able to come back over to this window refresh almost immediately and still only see two subscriptions,
because the program that I just closed down should have reached out to an answering server and told
it Close me down.
I don't exist anymore, so I'm going to flip back over to my terminal.
I'm going to restart one of the listeners and then very quickly go back over to the browser, refresh
the page and I'll only see the two subscriptions.
Perfect.
So now I should not suffer again from that problem of having some missing messages.
Now, this is not 100%.
Having said that, we're only going to attempt to close down that client if you receive one of these
two interrupt messages right here.
If you're on windows, windows does not always use the same kind of sig and sig term.
So if you're on windows, this might not work correctly.
In addition, if we forcibly kill this process, if we say just wipe this process out, then these handlers
right here are not going to have a chance to run.
So, for example, if I open up my activity monitor on Mac OS.
I'm going to find the instances of Node.js that I'm running.
Here they are right here.
And I'm going to hopefully kill the right one.
Let me pull open my terminal and I'm going to try to kill the one.
That is running one of my listeners.
And then immediately after that I'll go back over to the browser, refresh the page, and you're going
to see that if I forcibly kill these things, well, that close event does not actually occur or that
close request doesn't occur.
So let's see which of these is probably the right one.
I don't know what.
Just go randomly.
I'm going to force quit the first one.
Oh, I got lucky.
So I'm going to flip back over really quickly.
Refresh and oh, I've got to start up the new one.
There we go.
Refresh and there we go.
I've now got three clients.
Erroneously, one of these is actually dead, and that streaming server just doesn't know it yet.
So I'll once again have to rely upon that heartbeat mechanism to make sure that that streaming server
actually marks one of these things as offline.
Okay.
Now, at this point, I just want to take a quick pause and say all this stuff probably seems like really
crazy specific and way too in-depth.
Well, you've got to keep in mind that very soon we're going to see that if one of these subscriptions
is erroneously still alive, like we saw, that streaming server is going to try to send it an event.
It's going to fail to be processed.
And eventually, after 30 seconds now, streaming server is going to turn around and say, okay, I'm
just going to take this event and send it to some other service.
Well, in that period of time, in those ten, 20 seconds, 30 seconds, however long it takes for now
streaming server to figure out that it needs to take this event and send it somewhere else.
There might have been other events issued.
And that's super interesting to think about.
We might eventually have events inside of our application being processed in some not intended order
because of all this subscription related stuff.
So that might not sound like a big deal just yet.
But let's take a quick pause right here.
Come back the next video.
I'll show you a couple of diagrams and help you understand how interesting things really get if we have
events arriving inside of our application, outside of their intended order.